Add "Salesforce to MySQL Database" guide (#353)
wso2/ballerina-integrator: docs/content/src/learn/guides/saas-clients/sfdc46/salesforce-to-mysql-db/README.md

# Salesforce to MySQL Database

## About

Ballerina is an open-source programming language that supports developers to integrate their system easily with the 
support of connectors. In this guide, we are mainly focusing on using batch processing to synchronize Salesforce data
with a MySQL Database.

The Salesforce connector allows you to perform CRUD operations for SObjects, query using SOQL, search using SOSL, and 
describe SObjects and organizational data through the Salesforce REST API. Also it supports insert, upsert, update, 

> query and delete operations for CSV, JSON and XML data types which provides in Salesforce bulk API. It handles OAuth 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
query, and delete operations for CSV, JSON, and XML data types that are available in Salesforce bulk API. It handles OAuth 
```

2.0 authentication.

Ballerina provides standardized interface for accessing any relational database via JDBC. This allows you to run 
diverse SQL operations on a database, including Select, Insert, Update, and Delete.

> You can find other integrations modules from [wso2-ballerina](https://github.com/wso2-ballerina) Github organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find other integration modules from [wso2-ballerina](https://github.com/wso2-ballerina) GitHub organization.
```

## What you'll build

> This application queries Salesforce for new or updated contacts at a regular interval. Then processes SOQL records one 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This application queries Salesforce for new or updated contacts at a regular interval. Then it processes SOQL records one 
```

> at a time. It queries the Database using JDBC client to check whether the salesforce contact is exists in the Database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at a time. It queries the database using JDBC client to check whether the Salesforce contact exists in the Database.
```

> If it is currently exists in the Database, then update the existing account in the Database. Else, insert the new 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it currently exists in the database, update the existing account in the database. Alternately, insert the new 
```

> contact into Database. After the process is completed for the entire salesforce accounts batch, a success message is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contact into the database. After the process is completed for the entire Salesforce accounts batch, a success message is 
```

logged.

![sfdc to mysql database](../../../../../../../assets/img/salesforce-to-MySQL-Database.jpg)

## Prerequisites

- [Java](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/index.html)

> - A Text Editor or an IDE

Reviewer: Let's recommend VS Code here.

- Link to download Ballerina Integrator.

## Implementation

A Ballerina project needs to be created for the integration use case explained above. Please follow the steps given below 
to create the project and modules. You can learn about the Ballerina project and modules in this 

> [guide](https://ei.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/ballerina-integrator/develop/using-modules/#creating-a-project).

Reviewer: Shall we use a relative link here?

1. Create a new project.

    ```bash
    $ ballerina new salesforce-to-mysql-db
    ```

2. Create a module.

    ```bash
    $ ballerina add sfdc_to_mysql_db
    ```

   The project structure is created as indicated below.

    ```
    salesforce-to-mysql-db
    ├── Ballerina.toml
    └── src
        └── sfdc_to_mysql_db
            ├── Module.md
            ├── main.bal
            ├── resources
            └── tests
                └── resources
    ```

> 3. Set up credentials for accessing Salesforce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set up credentials for accessing Salesforce.
```

>    i. Visit [Salesforce](https://www.salesforce.com) and create a Salesforce Account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   i. Visit [Salesforce](https://www.salesforce.com) and create a Salesforce account.
```

    ```

6. Add the project configuration file by creating a `ballerina.conf` file under the root path of the project structure. 
   This file should have following configurations. Add the obtained Salesforce configurations and Database 
   configurations to the file.

    ```
    SF_BASE_URL="<Salesforce base url (eg: https://ap15.salesforce.com)>"
    SF_ACCESS_TOKEN="<Salesforce access token>"
    SF_CLIENT_ID="<Salesforce client ID>"
    SF_CLIENT_SECRET="<Salesforce client secret>"
    SF_REFRESH_URL="<Salesforce refresh url (eg: https://login.salesforce.com/services/oauth2/token)>"
    SF_REFRESH_TOKEN="<Salesforce refresh token>"
    JDBC_URL="<JDBC URL (eg: jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/sf_company)>"
    DB_USERNAME="<MySQL database username>"
    DB_PASSWORD="<MySQL database password>"
    SCHEDULER_INTERVAL_IN_MILLIS=<Scheduler interval in milli-seconds (eg: 60000)>
    ```

7. Open the project with VS Code. The integration implementation is written in the `src/sfdc_to_mysql_db/main.bal` 
   file.

    **main.bal**
    <!-- INCLUDE_CODE: src/guide/main.bal -->

    Here we are running `sfdcToMysqlService` using a task scheduler. You can set the Scheduler interval in the 

>     `ballerina.conf` file. when `sfdcToMysqlService` service's `onTrigger` function triggered, it will retrieve newly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `ballerina.conf` file. When the `sfdcToMysqlService` service's `onTrigger` function is triggered, it will retrieve newly
```

>     modified salesforce contacts and update the Database using them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    modified Salesforce contacts and update the database using them.
```

## Testing

> First let’s build the module. Navigate to the project root directory, execute the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First let’s build the module. Navigate to the project root directory and execute the following command.
```

```bash
$ ballerina build guide
```

This creates the executables. Now run the `guide.jar` file created in the above step.

```bash
$ java -jar target/bin/guide.jar
```

> You will see the following log after successfully updating the Database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see the following log after successfully updating the database.
```
